# CS-255-Systems-Analysis-Design

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?

DriverPass is a company whose main goal is to help customers have a higher success rate on their driving test. They plan to do this through providing different services that clients can pay for. They want to offer three different packages for clients to choose from. The first will include 3 driving lessons. The second package will include 4 driving lessons as well as an in-person explanation of DMV rules and policies. The third package will include 6 driving lessons, the in-person explanation, as well as access to online content, material, and tests. They want to create a website that can be accessed by both DriverPass employees as well as clients. It should be accessible from both mobile devices and computers. They want clients to be able to register and then view their profile online, as well as reset their own passwords. Employees of DriverPass will be able to book, modify, or cancel lessons for clients upon request. Clients should be able to create, modify, or cancel driving lessons themselves from their profile. If they paid for it, they should be able to access online content, material and tests from their profile as well. After driving lessons, drivers should be able to leave notes for the students which can be viewed through student profiles ("DriverPass interview transcript", n.d). 

What did you do particularly well?

I feel that I did a good job of identifying requirements and researching to help find the best way to fulfill requirements, as well as solutions to limitations.  

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
I would improve my UML class diagram. I found this extrememly difficult to do and so I am sure it has many things which could be improved upon. I would also like to practice creating this type of diagram more. Although I had a very good idea of the requirements the system had, as well as what processes it should do, it was very difficult for me to then architect a system for it. When creating a class diagram, the classes, variables, and processes that are included in this diagram model data in an object-oriented way (Valacich & George, 2020, p.277). Because I do not have a lot of experience with this yet I had a hard time determing what classes I should have as well as how they should interact. I ran into a lot of trouble with not repeating processes. For instance, the administartor could do everything the other roles could do, but the other roles could not do everything an administrator could do ("DriverPass interview transcript", n.d). This created a lot of issues where I did not want to create multiple identical processes, but also needed to include them in various roles so I did end up repeating processes. 

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I took user's needs and turned them into requirements. With the requirmens I then created various diagrams to represent the system. For instance, I created a use case diagram which showed all the processes that could be performed by the system. Each of these processes directly met the user's needs. It is improtant to consider these needs when designing a system in order to create something that is not only functional, but also helpful to the user. This system was created to help users pass the DMV driving test, so everything in the system should revolve around achieving this goal ("DriverPass interview transcript", n.d). If the system cannot perform its intended purpose then there is no point in using it and the customer will not be happy with the end result.     

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
Software is designed in stages known as the systems development life cycle (SDLC) (Valacich & George, 2020, p.6). There are many approaches to this lifecycle but a basic one is: planning, analysis, design, implementation, and maintenance (Valacich & George, 2020, p.7). To analyze and design a system you start with planning. During the planning phase, system requirements are gathered from the customer. In the analysis phase, research is done to see what users want from the system. Once all requirements are gathered, the Design phase can be started. During this phase both logical and physical models of the system are created. After the preliminary phases are completed, the development team can start creating the system in the implementation phase. This phase is made up of two parts, in the first part, specifications given by the client and customers are coded and tested. The client can then be shown the work in order to receive feedback. Any Changes that need to be made to accommodate changes are made, and the syystem can be tested again. Once these changes are done, the system can be delivered to the client, and documentation as well as training programs on the system are finalized. Finally, the maintenance phase is reached and the system begins operation (Valacich & George, 2020, pp.8-10).

Resources: 
Southern New Hampshire University. (n.d.). "CS 255 DriverPass interview transcript". https://learn.snhu.edu
Valacich, J. S., & George, J. F. (2020). "Modern systems analysis and design" (9th ed.). Pearson Education, Inc.
 
